# backbenchers
repository meant for code.fun.do 2018

//This idea is meant for code.fun.do 2018 on the natural disaster management//
-----------------------------------------------------------INTRODUCTION-------------------------------------------------------------------
Natural disaster has become very common not only in India but in whole world. It may be floods, earthquakes, landslides, tsunamis etc.  whatever may be the reason but it's management has become a field of concern. Every disasters claims a lot of lives particularly in developing countries due to lack of disaster management after these disasters. This project aims at reducing these casualties by smartly managing the rescue operations in affected areas. 
-------------------------------------------------------------PROBLEM----------------------------------------------------------------------
Suppose a landslides occurs in hilly area and many people get trapped at different locations in groups of varied numbers. Now it becomes really difficult for rescue teams to find out the exact location of the trapped people due to difficult terrain. Most often people remain unaware of any toll-free through which they can contact the rescue teams and describe their exact location. Lot of time, energy and fuel is wasted in searching for the trapped people and people slowly lose hope and gets unfortunate deaths.
---------------------------------------------------------------AIM-----------------------------------------------------------------------We are aiming to design a centralised apps for weather department, rescue and relief operation teams and common people who gets trapped in natural disasters. The app will have three logins, one for rescue teams, another for common people and third one for the weather department. Different logins can be used by different rescue teams operating in different affected areas. Any trapped person will be able send its current location, where he/she is trapped, to rescue teams through this app. He will also be able to send the number of persons trapped with him/her so that rescue team can come with all preparation for that number of people. He will also be able to see current location of rescue team and their current advancements which will give them the much needed hope for survival.  Rescue teams will be able to see a map on their screen depicting the exact locations of all the trapped person or groups with their exact numbers. This also help rescue teams to manage the rescue operations more efficiently so that it takes less time,  fuel and energy as locations are already known to them. We will also facilitate a notification window where rescue teams will be able to post notifications about resue and relief operation and any instruction if any for common people. Weather department will have a separate login on which they will be able to post weather forecast and instructions if any to the common people. 
